Other big events of the time, describe Silver
Taps. Silver Taps was a very solemn occasion. They
would play the Silver Taps from the perimeter of
the dome of the academic building. And we would all
go to the area on the west side of the academic
building. and we would stand in detention and the
band would be there and the band would play the
Spirit of Aggieland and then the buglers, about
six of them, you couldn't see them and they would
play that tap and it would just make
ripples run up and down your back because it was so
So effective. Then they'd read the names of those
people and they'd play the silver tabs. Then it
would break up and it was just total silence. You
could hear a pin drop right out there. Thousands of
young men standing around. When it was all over,
they'd just break and everybody there would go
just in groups right till they're gone.
Mustard. We didn't have much in the way of a muster
for three years, but then our senior year, April
21st, we had some kind of a tape message from
General Moore from the building. From
Corregidor. From Corregidor. Do you remember
where the ceremony was held on campus? Yes, the
ceremony was held on the north side of Goodman Hall
on the steps. And I remember this thing from the
Philippines was replayed right there. It was all
on some kind of a machine. And we all heard it very
well. And you know, that's about the time of the
fall of Corregidor, wasn't it?
April of 42. just a little before. Yeah. Let's see,
how often did you go home? I went home, I came down
here in early September and I went home
Thanksgiving. I went home Christmas.
And if I was lucky I got to go home sometime in the
spring, but most likely I didn't. I stayed here for
from the spring break. We had two breaks. We had a
break at Christmas and then we had a break at
Easter. When you, before you had a car, how'd you
get back and forth on those brief trips to
Greenville? Well, I'd go to the corner where the
I guess there's an old Safeway store there now
taken over by the county. It's mental health and
mental retardation in Bryan on about 24th Street
and Texas Avenue. If I was going to go to
Greenville, I'd pack a small bag. I'd have my
uniform on. If it was raining, I'd have my
raincoat. And I'd catch a bus to Bryan. I'd get to
that corner where all the Aggies were, and I'd say,
what's the number? And most of the time, it was 170.
169 of them being ahead of me. That whole
churchyard, there's a little church there. And so
what I would do, the first offer I got to get out of
Brian, to Hearn, or any Madisonville, or anywhere
else, all those I'd take. Because I was going to sit
there a long time. So sometime going to
Greenville, I caught 10 rides. Norm, what was the
average length of time? To wait? No, no, from here
to Greenville. Oh, sometime 11, 12 hours. But
sometime I made it in six or seven, just lucky.
Sometime I'd catch a ride and go all the way to
Dallas. Did you normally go to Dallas and then?
Yeah, then go to Greenville. I could go to Dallas
and go down there around where the bus station was
and get one of those cars that would take people for
a small amount of money. They had those in the
Depression. I could go down there and say, I want to
go over to Greenville. And they'd check their
little list and say, oh, here we got one that's
going to be leaving here in a little while. And I
said, how much? And they'd say a dollar. I said, I
want to go. And that car would come by there. four or
five others that was in the car. So you never put up a
sign that said Greenville? No. But you always wore
your uniform? Always wore my uniform. Did you put
up a thumb? Yes. To show you were hijacked? Oh yes,
I'd ask you to ride. Did you ever have anything
approaching a negative experience with the
person that gave you a ride? No. Did you know of
anybody that ever did? No. I haven't heard of any
yet. No, no. I never had a problem with anybody. I
don't know anybody that ever did. Now, were other
college students hitchhiking as much as Aggies?
No. No, we had such an edge with the uniform. That's
what I have to say. The uniform, people seemed not
to worry about the Aggies because we had the
uniforms on. And they weren't afraid of us.
In terms of these worldwide events, do you
remember any other other than Pearl Harbor and
then what followed it? Do you remember any other
events plus good or bad events that startled you
and your friends while you were here? Were you all
alert of when Hitler invaded Poland? Yes.
Hitler's movement through Poland and all of that,
we were on the radio all the time listening to that.
It was just a common practice. And we were very
conversant with Hitler's aggression.
So we were
right there on
the ball on every move that he was making, knowing
all along that we were going to end up in the war. We
knew we were going to be in the war sooner or later.
I'm trying to think of any big event that happened
in those years, let's see, 38, 39, 40, 41. Well, I
don't
think that any worldwide event that I recall. I
remember when the Hindenburg caught fire, but I
think that was before I was in A&M. And
I remember the airplane, the B-25, running into
Waldorf Astoria, but I was up in New York sometime
then, so events like that.
Let's see, what's the final review of your senior
year? Was that all very stirring? Very stirring,
yes, very stirring.
It was,
it was real sentimental, emotional. We had, as you
know, we had two reviews. The senior led the Corps
around and then we stepped aside and the junior
stepped forward. If they had boots they put them on
and here they go around again and it was really a
very sentimental experience. The court trips
were important in those days. Yes, yes. And
special trains. Yeah, talk about that. We'd go to
either Fort Worth or Dallas one year and then we'd
go to Houston or Waco and they'd bring trains in for
Houston or Dallas, Fort Worth, Fort Worth. And it
was about three or four bucks for a round trip from
here to Dallas.
If somebody couldn't afford a ticket, well, you
know how those seats were pushed together like
this and there was an opening under here? Sometime
we had as many as three or four down between those
seats, backs of the seats. And we always had a bunch
of old coats laying over them. And somebody would
create a little diversion when the ticket takers
came along just to get them. moving on. Did y'all
ever suspect that probably the ticket taker knew
what was happening? Oh yes, yes. We thought we were
real smart. Most of the cases they knew. They could
read us better than we could read them. Alright, so
you went up there. Did the train stay there? Did
y'all get to sleep on the train? No, we never slept
on the train. Where would you spend the night?
Well, somebody would have a hotel room. And about
30 of us would spend the night. We'd sleep on the
floors. And in most cases, however, we all had
friends from either Dallas or Fort Warner or
Houston or Waco. And in most cases, we were invited
to spend the night at these friends' houses. So you
did two of those a year. Yeah. Which was your
favorite town? Well, since I was from Greenville,
I enjoyed Dallas more than any.
Fort Worth was a little rougher because the people
at Fort Worth, some of the people at Fort Worth in
the nightclubs where we used to go were a little
rougher than the ones in Dallas and some of our boys
got beat up pretty bad in fights up there at Fort
Worth. But I enjoyed Dallas the best and I guess
Houston next and then Fort Worth and then Wake up.
Austin.
I never did, I went to Austin for the 1940 game when
we got beat, when we were supposed to go to the Rose
Bowl. Then in 41, fall of 41 we played here. I didn't
go to too many of those portraits in Austin. The,
did you see much of those famous Aggie
footballers? on campus? Were they? I saw them all
the time. Who were your favorites as people? As
people?
Well, I admired and I thought a great deal of John
Kimball. I
had a little argument a few days ago, maybe you were
bothered about John Kimball. Somebody said he
wasn't a very good student. No, no, no. I said, I
don't think that's so. They said, oh, everybody
had to help him go through. And I said, well, I sat in
chemistry class with John, and he didn't have any
trouble whatsoever. He was a principal fellow.
That's what I heard. And I knew Tommy Baum very
well. He was kind of a wild monkey, but a hell of a
good guy. Howard Shelton, who was my company
commander, was an electrical engineering
student, and a member of the Scholarship Honor
Society, and played football. And there's Cullen
Rogers, who was in A Company, and then later on,
close to him, and I knew Martin Ruby, and I knew
Jim Sterling. I knew Roy Bluchek. I knew Darius
Mosier. I knew Bill Panacher.
I was in summer camp at Camp Willis in San Antonio
with Bill Panacher. Matter of fact, I rode home
with him when he went from San Antonio to Denison.
He was from Denison. Denison, yellow jacket.
Yeah, and he let me out in Dallas and I caught a ride
some way to Greenville. But I was, we all were
close. That football team was very popular among
the students and they weren't standoffish. Where
did the athletes live then? Well, earlier
they lived in Walden Hall. But then when they built
the new dorms, They moved in dorm 12.
The band was in dorm 11. Duncan Hall in the middle,
dorm 12 over here, and the football players were
there. Of all the student leadership positions
when you were a student, which ones carried the
most prestige? The cadet colonel. The cadet
colonel was the number one student of the corps and
the student body. The second was probably the
president of the senior class. And then it
probably went to the regimental command, like the
top man in the infantry, the top man in the
artillery, the top man in the coast, the top man in
the capital. Band was highly regarded? Band was
highly regarded. The commanders of the band, they
had an infantry band, an artillery band, and a
total band commander. They were highly respected
and considered leaders. Did y'all have a nickname
for the band? No, just the Aggie band. They had a,
what they called it, a white band and a maroon band.
And one was the artillery and one was the infantry.
And it was about 200 pieces or a little less and a
pretty good band. Did y'all think then of them as
being very, very good at their marching routine of
games? We thought they were the best in the world.
We were proud of them. We were proud of the Ross
Volunteers. We thought they were a neat outfit,
though it was not a large organization. We were
proud of them. Were there singing cadets then?
Yes. Were they called that? Yes, they were called
singing cadets. Mr. Joe Lookit was the head of the
singing cadets. And Buck Weiris was a part member
of the singing cadets. That's what was Pete Adams,
my friend, who got killed in Brian. And we felt like
they were very, very good. We're getting near the
end now. What creates Aggie spirit? What creates
Aggie pride? I
think what you run into on the campus, what you see
that happens on the campus day and night. You see
things done that you wouldn't expect and you have a
great appreciation for the fact that it happened
that way. And it therefore creates a spirit, a
feeling. Are there any events that are key to that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. The band as it plays. the
marches, the silver taps, the mustard, all add
factors to that. But I think that the spirit, the
actual spirit comes with the basic fundamental of
how you were treated and how you were respected and
how you were handled while you were on the campus.
Were you mistreated? When you needed help, were
you assisted? Did your faculty, did your teachers
laugh at you or did they help you? When you needed
help, who'd you go to and how did they meet your
problem? And those little things that you
probably I you know if I had to sit down and write
what what the Aggie spirit is I couldn't think of
the damn thing but I'm sure maybe but I think it's
just a combination of all those things to the point
when it was all over it was there I mean it was there
and it just gave you a feeling that well this has
been such a wonderful experience I hope it'll last
for eternity And I hope that I'll be able to do
something to kind of repay. Okay, that's the next
question. Yeah. Let's make believe that somebody
gives you a million dollars. Yeah. And the only
condition is you've got to give it to A&M and you
decide what's going to be done with it. Yeah. What
would you want it done with? Where would it, what
area or what? Well, I think I would not give it for
anything physical.
I think if I could, I would say I want this for
scholarships.
Any particular thing? Not any. I don't have any
right now. I wouldn't want to particularly
restrict it to... in any particular field, I think
I would want to say, I want you to give this
scholarship to somebody who meets certain
criteria, one of which would be a need. I wouldn't
want a scholarship to go to a boy or girl, I wouldn't
restrict it to a boy. A boy or a girl, whatever
agenda or whatever color, I wouldn't care. But
somebody who needed it, but on the other side,
somebody who could make it. But some little help,
you know. And then I might want to set up an award for
a teacher. And I wouldn't care what field of
teacher. I would think I would want one that would
be recognized for his student relationships. I
would want to recognize a teacher not because he
was the best biochemist in the world, but because
he did more for students than anybody else. And so
that's what I do. Next
to last.
What did it mean to you in your life that you went
here instead of somewhere else? Everything.
Everything. I could, like I say, I could have gone
to Texas Tech and I think I could have gone to
University of Texas. I graduated with a pretty
high honors up in Greenville and I could have
gotten into any school I guess in Texas. But I just
had a desire to come to this school and never
regretted it one bit of one single time. And it's
just meant everything to me. And I mean no
disrespect to the other institutions, because
I'm a believer of higher education, wherever it
comes from. But this school, and I think really the
thing that makes me feel so strong to the
institution,
for the fact that I, all of them, And I'm not talking
about just the classroom teacher. I'm talking
about the people in the dining hall. I'm talking
about the wives of the faculty that I came to know.
And I'm talking about the administrators, the
staff, the deans, the student relationship
people, the TAC officers,
the people that worked in the in the buildings.
Just everybody around here seemed to have a
feeling about being helpful to me. And those were
important to me.
I can't answer your question. I don't know. The
last question is almost repetitive. What
feelings do you have in your heart for Indiana? Oh,
super. Super. I think so much for it that I worry
about it. I want it to be as good as I think it was at
the base. And I'm not sure it's as good as it was. But
I don't mean to say that I'm not highly supportive
of the administration and what's been done. I
think the girls, I think it was time to bring the
girls in. I think they deserved it. I think it was
time to let the blacks come in. They could make it
more power to them. I think it was time that this
corps be optional. You either be in the corps or you
don't. If you want to go the fraternity route, go
ahead. If you want to do something else, go ahead.
But I just think, now sometimes, to be honest, I
think we do some bad, good things. But I don't make a
case
out of it. But I don't let those things bother
me. Let's quit there. Let's go.